Predicting fluctuating demands
can make operating the supply chain very challenging.
As the customer's demand changes,
the supply chain must be able to react accordingly.
For instance, if a new clinic is added to the hospital,
then the overall demand for supplies will increase.
However, if units in the hospital shut down
for weeks or months,
then the need for these same supplies will decrease.
As the result of changes in demand,
staff can take actions that impact inventory,
whether positive or negative.
Some of these impacts can include holding inventory
to combat uncertainty.
If there's an incident that occurs with the supplier,
there may be uncertainty whether an item might be available.
As a result, the logistics staff will order
and hold onto the excessive amounts of supplies
in case there could be stock outages.
There was a time when there were shortages of saline
that is used in the OR,
and it was difficult to obtain from any vendors.
As a result, many facilities purchased the saline in bulk,
anticipating that vendors
would not have an adequate supply later.
This prediction came to pass,
and saline was difficult to obtain when needed.
The facilities that purchased the saline in bulk
in advance were able to continue with operations.